Software architecture (#466)
tumcms/Open-Infra-Platform: Documentation/markdown/SoftwareArchitecture.md

## <a name="Overall_architecture"></a> Overall Software Architecture

This section gives a general overview of the software architecture of the Open Infra Platform 
with its core software modules together with their interrelations.
Furthermore, dependencies on third-party libraries are stated. 

![](../images/software_architecture.PNG)

### <a name="Fundaments"></a> Fundaments

> The base module constitutes the backbone of the Open Infra Platform, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The _Base_ module constitutes the backbone of the Open Infra Platform, 
```

Consistency :)

Author: Resolved: 7aaecb6

with all of the other software parts building upon it. 
As its main part, several third-party libraries are linked here. 
Other than that, it also provides very fundamental elements like the _IModel_ interface 
that is implemented by the upper layers for every supported file format (e.g., `IFC` and `OFF`)

> and holds all of the information read from the input files. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and provides some basic information about the input files. 
```

It doesn't hold all the information. As a matter of fact, it holds no information. It only *promises*  that some information will be made availlable by the implementation.

Author: Resolved: 7aaecb6

Furthermore, classes and structures for georeferencing metadata and simple bounding boxes are given.
The third-party libraries linked to this module are Boost, BlueFramework, Carve, Tclap, FFTW3, and Doxygen.
More details on these libraries can be found [here](Licenses/readme.md).

### <a name="Modules"></a> Modules

The modules can be separated into two central parts. 
First of all, the _Core_ module links to the third-party libraries `Eigen` and `Qt`.
It also comprises one submodule for the IFC (Industry Foundation Classes) and OFF (Object File Format) file format each. 
In the case of IFC, the _IFC Geometry Converter_ takes care of the geometric conversion processes. 
It makes use of the _Express Binding Library_, which is generated by the [Express Binding Generator](#Express_binding). 

> The IFC file format supports all sorts of geometric representations 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

The IFC file format supports all sorts of geometric representations 
```

I'd start a new paragraph here.

Author: Resolved: 7aaecb6

ranging from boundary representation and constructive solid geometry to sweep volumes.
This includes implicit as well as explicit geometric representations. 
In order to be able to render these complex geometries described in an IFC file, 
the _IFC Geometry Converter_ has to convert the geometric descriptions 
specified in IFC into a triangle mesh that can be understood by the rendering engine.
This step is based on the geometry kernel `carve`. 
Since IFC encompasses a multitude of representations and is constantly updating, 
only a subset of the _IfcRepresentationItems_ are supported at the moment, 
focusing on the most frequently used ones. 
However, OIP is continuously expanding to cover more and more types of representations. 
To check which representation items are currently supported, 
the user can take a look at the [List of supported IFC Representations](./SupportedIFCrepresentations.md). 

> The other part of the _Core_ module consists of the _OFF Geometry Converter_. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

The other part of the _Core_ module consists of the _OFF Geometry Converter_. 
```

Author: Resolved: 7aaecb6

The conversion process is a lot simpler in comparison to the IFC format 
since the OFF format is limited to this specific geometric representation.

![](../images/oip_components.png)

Moreover, OIP includes the _Point Cloud Processing_ module. 
This module enables the visualization of point clouds of the file format `.bin` (native CloudCompare format), `.las`, and others. 
Additionally, octrees can be visualized, and basic point cloud processing functionalities are provided.
This point cloud module has references to Qt5, Liblas, Eigen, and CloudCompare ([more details](Licenses/readme.md)).

By default, the _Point Cloud Processing_ module is deactivated. 
In order to make use of it, OIP needs to be built with the corresponding `CMake` option selected 
(for further details, see [CMake Options Documentation](Documentation/markdown/CMakeOptions.md)). 
A significant advantage is that the _Core_ and the _Point Cloud Processing_ module can be run simultaneously 
so that, e.g., one can open an IFC file and a point cloud 
at the same time to compare them to each other directly.

### <a name="UI"></a> User Interface

The underlying part of the user interface is the _Rendering module_. 

> This links to a self-written rendering engine called _BlueFramework_. 

Reviewer: Link to the repo would be best here.

Author: Resolved: 7aaecb6

Depending on the objects that are to be displayed, different types of shaders and effects are implemented. 

> The _Graphical User Interface_ is built on top of this, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

The _Graphical User Interface_ is built on top of this, 
```

Author: Resolved: 7aaecb6

which has a 3D viewport to display geometric objects and several menus and buttons that provide functions to interact with them. 
The GUI bases on the `Qt` library, which has an extensive catalog of ready-to-use user interface elements. 
Other third-party libraries that the GUI uses are Zlib and Proj (for more details see [here](Licenses/readme.md))

### <a name="UT"></a> Unit Testing

> On the other hand, there is the _Unit Testing_ part, which bases on `Google Test`. 

Reviewer: Careful - if one uses *on the other hand*  there **must** be *on the one hand* somewhere as well.

Author: Resolved: 7aaecb6

the unit test base includes a geometry model renderer that allows rendering without the use of the _Graphical User Interface_. 
On top of that, there are various individual unit tests for IFC, OFF, and point clouds (and also some other more general unit tests?). 
These provide automated checking to guarantee that implemented functionalities are all still in place and working as expected. 
For the case of the IFC format, the [List of supported IFC Representations](./SupportedIFCrepresentations.md) 
provides information about which representations currently have at least one unit test in place.

## <a name="Express_binding"></a> Express Binding Generator

This section gives a short overview of how the _Express Binding Generator_ is working. 
The general task of the _Express Binding Generator_ is to read an IFC schema in the form of an EXPRESS schema definition 
and automatically create early binding C++ classes mirroring the IFC entities. 
This allows to find coding errors already at compile time. 
The _Express Binding Generator_ consists of three main parts: 
the executables, the commands, and the early binding library. 

> These are explained in more detail in the following.

Reviewer: in the following *what*?

Author: Resolved: 7aaecb6

![](../images/express_binding.PNG) 

### <a name="Exec"></a> Executables 

![](../images/express_parser.png)

In the executables, the basic functionalities are defined, which state how the IFC EXPRESS schemas are converted to C++ classes,
taking into account entities, inverse attributes, attributes, types, and SELECT clauses. 

> A Flex and Bison parser generates a corresponding meta-model representation in C++, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Flex and Bison generate a corresponding meta-model representation in C++, 
```

Author: Resolved: 7aaecb6

which needs to overcome fundamental differences between C++ and EXPRESS.
The executables make use of the third-party libraries Flex, Bison, Tclap, and Boost ([more details](Licenses/readme.md)))

> Not all parts of the EXPRESS schema are supported at the moment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Not all parts of the EXPRESS schema are supported at the moment.
```

Author: Resolved: 7aaecb6
